# CS-465-Full-Stack-Development-I

# Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
  In my full stack project we utilized several different types of frontend development like Express HTML, JavaScript with a single page application. The frontend of this particular website was mostly used in conjunction with html and javascript. We used the JavaScript for the websites routes, controller modules and models. JavaScript was also used for the main application file which is exported by the Express framework. 
	The SPAs within this project are applications that also operate on a single page. The scope of this page is to focus on providing administrative features that can manage the website, while the Express pages worked off the handlebar views via the HTML pages.

# Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?

  We created a NoSQL for the backend but using the MongoDB database. Within the mongo database, we utilized Mongoose in order to hold information such as information about a trip and the login of user credentials. Using the NoSQL was nice because it is not required to follow or rely on a schema, but it makes it easier to store and modify data on the application as we seen by implementing the seedgooserc command that showed us the console page to create trips.

## Functionality

# How is JSON different from JavaScript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
	I believe the main difference between JSON and JavaScript is the fact that JSON is great for storing data. JSON cannot include functions and that is where JavaScript ties in together because JavaScript can include functions. The limitations with this is that JavaScript objects are strictly only used via JavaScript whereas JSON can be used in many different languages. JavaScript works well with JSON because it is able to convert it within the system. The JSON data is then used to transmit the data between the backend server to the frontend. 

# Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
	The two main examples of the refactoring of code for this project that improved functionality was by moving the html code to corresponding components that allows them to be called from each page. The pages are updated to dynamically load in the data from the database in what will improve the functionality. We also created a header and footer file, which were created into partials for the handlebars view so that the file can be called and displayed.

## Testing
# Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
	This part of the assignment I struggled with and am still working on a solution. The API endpoints I created in the code are not populating when you test the application. This is something I’ve made small progress towards but is not fully functional yet. However in the scope of the project, the API endpoints in this application are used to validate the user and authorize the user to alter the information in the database. These endpoints are used in combination with certain data related methods, such as GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE. Applying security for these endpoints is essential, as if there are no protection unauthorized users would be able to make access of them and gain access to all the information held inside the database.

## Reflection
# How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals?
	This course has helped me with professional development. I’ve learned a lot in this course especially troubleshooting issues and being able to work them out. I work a full time job about 50-60 hours per week and it was a struggle finding the time to stay caught up on schoolwork. Somedays I would drive to work on 3 hours of sleep and work another 10-12 hour day. This class was really able to articulate the differences between the front end and backend of web applications. Although I ran into some issues midway through, I’ve learned a lot about creating a web application and hope to continue learning more in the future. 

# What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
	This course has helped me see the different directions I have when choosing a career field after school which is in two months. I think the biggest skill that I have developed in this class is having a better understanding on how many components of code really link together and build a finished product at the end. This course has helped me tremendously on time management and working diligently when you do have the time too. It’s not easy learning a different career field while working full time for your current employment. Although things don’t always go as planned, I believe in the end if you truly want it, it will work. By progressing through the weeks to develop a web application, I can say I have a better understanding and appreciation of how many coding components can flow together to create a finished product at the end like our Travlr Website. As I’m nearing the completion of my degree, it’s comforting knowing that there are several avenues as a computer science software engineer. Although all of them are important, I am still unsure of exactly what I want to do with this degree. I love all aspects of learning and working in a team environment and I’m excited to see where this next career chapter will take me. 
